[Ready-for-Review]Create new subchapter for reviewing PRs and maintainance for GitHub collaboration (#1189)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/collaborating_github/reviewing-contributions.md

# Collaborating as a maintainer

## Prerequisites / recommended skill level
> 

| Prerequisite | Importance | 
| -------------|----------|
| [Experience with version control](/version_control/version_control) | Helpful | 

## Summary
For any open source project, the most difficulat job is to work on an idea and make suitable changes. There are many tasks which are very well carried out by the project maintainer/owner or the maintaining/owning team. 

> The following chapter throws light on some of the most important tasks of the admins and maintainers of the project such as carrying on discussions, mentoring contributors, creating, reviewing and merging PRs and handling issues on a collaborative GitHub project. It also provides the best prctices to be used while contributing to a project as a maintainer.

Author: Okay, yes. You're right. I wrote the Summary in the end so didn't pay attention. Thanks! :+1:

**_NOTE_**: It does not show "how to" guides to these tasks and gives an introductory knowledge about what are the major responsibilities of a maintainer and how these responsibilities should ideally be carried out.

## How this will help you/ why this is useful 
> The maintenance and review work is important for the people who are interested in maintaining the-turing-way GitHub repository and can review contributions. 
>The Git workflow is difficult to understand, especially when collaborating with a group of contributors for a project. Hence, it is very important that the reviews to all these contributions are properly done.

## Reviewing and Maintainance- What is it?

> In an open source project which requires and allows many contributors to make contributions in the form of [issues](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/about-issues) and [pull requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests), need [reviews](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-reviews) and follow up [comments](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request) on the ideas and changes which they suggest.  

Author: Yes. Some sentences are long in this file. I'll try to make more clear and concise sentences next time.

These ideas and discussions lead to better quality code and opens new perspectives regarding a particular feature. The reviews are done to make high quality production level code.  

> Maintenance deals with keeping the existing code updated. It requires that whenever a new feature is added or whenever a new idea is accepted, the corresponding changes must be made in existing codebase(if required) and the documentation.  

Author: Spaces,yes. Will pay attention to this and to adding new lines while writing new sentences. I need to follow the guidelines. :heavy_check_mark:

Knowing the working of Version control systems, [markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) and open source [workflow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) helps to a great extent in carrying out all these tasks.

## Ownership and Permissions 
In any team or organization owned project, there are different contributors. 

> - Some start the project and are generally, the owners of the project. The Codeowners who have the rights over who can make reviews and suggest changes to contributions. The individuals or teams who are codeowners for a certain project are specified at the time of project creation in a [file](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) of the project.  

Author: I made some changes with respect to making it more general in [this](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/1189/commits/40f840a6a22f518703ba4a9e8652e16e2cd5243d) commit. I can completely remove the reference to CODEOWNERS file, if required. I am not sure. Let me know what do you think about this. :slightly_smiling_face:

> - Some start the project and are generally, the owners of the project. The Codeowners who have the rights over who can make reviews and suggest changes to contributions. The individuals or teams who are codeowners for a certain project are specified at the time of project creation in a [file](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) of the project.  

Reviewer: I left a comment on the commit rephrasing slightly but it looks good!

They can make other contributors as maintainers, reviewers or members working on the project. They can also involve other codeowners and are responsible for granting permissions. 

- Maintainers are involved with creating issues and pull requests whenever required. They keep the codebase updated and help in reviewing contributions. They can merge pull requests.  
They can also request reviews from someone else. There are various [levels of permissions](https://help.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-organizations-and-teams/repository-permission-levels-for-an-organization) for a project in GitHub.

> ## Reviewing process

Reviewer: This section is quite focussed on testing this work and committing changes. I'd like to also acknowledge that PRs are conversations/exchanges of knowledge where discussions of implementation and future goals may also happen, more than "does this run?", if that's ok?

Author: I kept this section just to introduce that we have different access rights and permission levels in a collaborative open source project.This section was created keeping just the basics in mind. I have explained all about the communication and discussions part in the Guidelines. I can write a line or two about that here too, if you insist.

Reviewer: I think saying something like "This section covers access rights and permission levels. For more information on communications and discussions, please see [LINK TO GUIDELINES]" is all that's needed here :)

> - Any code base or set of changes must be reviewed before merging. If the project os co-owned by many people, the review process is done by handling it in the form of a [code review assignment](https://help.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-organizations-and-teams/managing-code-review-assignment-for-your-team) in which certain members of the team are chosen for the review.  

Author: Another one! :sweat_smile:

This member subset of team is selected with the help of algorithms after reviewing is enabled and review assignment is configured for a particular project.  
- The review process is dependent on the testing of a particular pull request by a maintainer or admin. The admins can easily [test](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/checking-out-pull-requests-locally) the changes made in their local systems and suggest changes required.  
- After this any set of changes through pull requests can be reviewed. When the review process is completed the reviews are [approved](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/approving-a-pull-request-with-required-reviews) or [dismissed](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/dismissing-a-pull-request-review) according to the outcome. 

## Merging changes
Pull requests created by contributors can be easily merged by maintainers after the review. There are different ways of merging a PR:

> - Merge pull request- Merges all commits to base branch. This keeps all commits made separated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Merge pull request- Merges all commits to base branch. This keeps all commits made separated. 
```
This method merges all commits as a single merge commit. https://rietta.com/blog/github-merge-types/#:~:text=Create%20a%20Merge%20Commit,commits%20are%20One%20and%20Two%20.

Author: Yes the merge commit is a single one in both "Merge pull request" and "Squash and Merge" methods but if there are multiple commits made which are referenced to be merged through a PR the first option will keep them as separate and the second one would squash them into one. Should I make the description a little longer?

Reviewer: Yes I think so. As it currently reads, why merge and squash commits differ is not obvious.

Author: I have made changes in the text. Can you please check and update accordingly? :slightly_smiling_face:

- Squash and merge- Squashes all commits into one and then merges the pull request. 
- Rebase and merge- Rebases all commits individually to base branch before merging.  
In the prompt message, the maintainer can provide a merge message along with comments(if any) and then press the “confirm merge” button.

> ## Guidelines for Review Process and Maintainance

Reviewer: I think this section would benefit from mentioning the Code of Conduct (and maybe link to what that is, either within this book or elsewhere) and about how it describes the kind of communication and discourse that is appropriate within the project. This should be a contributors first port of call.

Author: The guidelines are for maintainers but since I have mentioned about communication and collaboration between the maintainers and the contributors, I better mention it here. I have modified the brief paragraph at the start of this section in [this commit](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/1189/commits/c3a05c09ac39fd7a75a8cb339e81e3e6c28c6c3a).  :+1:

Reviewer: Looks fabulous, thank you!

> > For project collaboration on GitHub, it is very important to follow certain guidelines and best practices while maintaining a particular project. These guidelines become extremely important when the collaboration is done remotely on any project where the contributors and the maintainers might experience communication gaps due to various reasons. In such situations, contributing and maintenance can be done smoothly by the help of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For project collaboration on GitHub, it is very important to follow certain guidelines and best practices while maintaining a particular project. These guidelines become extremely important when the collaboration is done remotely on any project where the contributors and the maintainers might experience communication gaps due to various reasons. In such situations, contributing and maintenance can be done smoothly by the help of the following:
```

3. Mentorship and descriptions- The maintainer's job is to make contribution a process as easy as possible. Open source contributions can be intimidating for a lot of people.  
Guiding people by making friendly and encouraging conversations can make the onboarding process for new contributors comfortable. It is better to create descriptive issues to resolve. For significant contributions to be made, it is better to create different issues before resolving them with PRs.  
Labelling issues and PRs will help in getting more contributors involved in various tasks with different skill requirements. Labelling seemingly easy issues as ["good first issue"](https://help.github.com/en/github/building-a-strong-community/encouraging-helpful-contributions-to-your-project-with-labels) will help new contributors to pick up easy tasks like minor changes in code and content,bug and typo fixes and small design issues.

4. Maintaining the PRs- The maintenance of already existing PRs on a project involves labelling them, reviewing them, changing their stages, merging and closing them. Maintenance of PRs can be done by giving the right review on the right time.  

> It is ideal for any maintainer to review a contribution in the form of a PR within one week for an active project and provide labels as soon as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is ideal for any maintainer to review a contribution in the form of a PR within one week for an active project and provide labels as soon as possible.
```
This could set the expectation that all projects try to merge within one week whereas that is dependent on the size and workload of the maintenance team. Can we say something like "Maintainers may communicate a timescale within which they try to merge a PR, for example one week" instead?

Author: > Can we say something like "Maintainers may communicate a timescale within which they try to merge a PR, for example one week" instead?  

This is a very apt way to make changes in this point. I have created a [commit](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/pull/1189/commits/e92a3593c1b095b5eec740994bd5f520c2e3b79f) related to this. Please check once.

Reviewer: Looks great, thanks!

5. Being grateful and respecting time- Welcoming people who contribute to a project is one of the keys to make a collaborative project a success. Whenever a meaningful contribution is made and a PR is merged, maintainers should value it.   A small message saying "Thank you" is more than enough, especially for newbies in Open-source. It is always a good gesture to give credit to contributors in open source. Making a page or a file where all the key contributors are mentioned is a great way to do this.  
If the project contributors are based in different parts of the world, the maintainers should try to be respectful towards their time and schedule work accordingly. In case someone is not able to discuss ideas because of their schedule, maintainers and contributors should try to cooperate with each other as much as possible. 

## What to learn next

> > Community communications for open source has some relevant information with respect to getting involved with this community driven project. Read more: [here](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/open-source-comms/intro.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Community communications for open source](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/open-source-comms/intro.html) has some relevant information with respect to getting involved with this community driven project.
```
Refactoring the link slightly

## Ownership and Permissions 
In any team or organization owned project, there are different contributors. 

- Some start the project and are generally, the owners of the project. The Codeowners who have the rights over who can make reviews and suggest changes to contributions. The individuals or teams who are codeowners for a certain project may be specified at the time of project creation in a file of the project.  

> An example of this could be the [CODEOWNERS file](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) or the [Ways of Working file](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/ways_of_working.md) of _The Turing Way_ which provides an insight about the core project team responsible for creating and maintaining the project.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of this could be a [CODEOWNERS file](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) or a Ways of Working file (see _The Turing Way_'s [Ways of Working](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way/blob/master/ways_of_working.md) as an example). These files provide insight into the core project team responsible for creating and maintaining the project.   
```

Just rewording slightly but I think this is good :)
